CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

Contributing to rave
=====================

Style guide
-----------

__Naming__
- Classes: upper camel case: `MyClass`
- Functions, methods, variables: lowercase separated by underscores: `read_file`
- Modules: lowercase, no separation characters: `filesystem`
- Constants: full uppercase separated by underscores: `ZIP_MAGIC`
- Use names that are concise but descriptive in their context.

__Whitespace__
- Indent with 4 spaces per level. Do not indent empty lines.
- Use a single space after a comma.
- Operators (`=`, `+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, `**`, etc.) and compound operators should be surrounded by spaces on both sides.
- Single-line docstring: space between triple quotes and contents.
- Multi-line docstring: newline after opening triple quotes and before ending triple quotes. No extra identation.
- Separate logical groups of code with empty lines
- Separate function, method and class definitions with an empty line, possibly two.
- The newline character is `\n`. No DOS-style `\r\n` newlines.

__Miscellaneous__
- Try to keep a line within 120 characters in width. We don't specify a hard line wrap limit - use common sense.
- (Almost) never use `from ... import *`. Always qualify the names you want to import, if you must use the `from ... import ...` syntax.
  * The test cases are an exception to this.
- Use import aliases (`import foo.bar.baz as baz`) if you feel name references are becoming too long.
- End a file with a newline.


Commit messages
---------------

For quick fixes, a short one-line message is fine. For bigger commits though, use the full message to describe what you added and how it works, briefly. Wrap those lines to 78 characters.
Use the imperative form (`Add filesystem module tests.`, `Fix bug #1732.`, etc.) and proper punctuation in your commit messages.

Seperate the distinct changes you make into seperate commits. Don't have a single commit that adds multiple (unrelated) features, adds a feature and fixed a bug elsewhere, et cetera.

Prefix the first line in your commit message with the subsystem the commit applies to. Valid subsystems are:
  * rave: the engine core.
  * modules/*module*: an engine module.
  * build: the build and test system.
  * tests: unit or integration tests.
  * misc: anything that doesn't fit into the above categories.

Commit message:

misc: Update naming conventions and add rule for sectioning off code.
Private/internal variables and functions to a module now have to be prefixed
with an underscore. In addition, a rule has been added that a contributor
should try to section off relevant grouped parts of their code, preferably
with a header.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

Contributing to rave
=====================

Style guide
-----------

__Naming__
- Classes: upper camel case: `MyClass`
- Functions, methods, variables: lowercase separated by underscores: `read_file`
- Modules: lowercase, no separation characters: `filesystem`
- Constants: full uppercase separated by underscores: `ZIP_MAGIC`
- Use names that are concise but descriptive in their context.
- Prefix functions and variables internal to the module with an underscore. Do not do this for classes.

__Whitespace__
- Indent with 4 spaces per level. Do not indent empty lines.
- Use a single space after a comma.
- Operators (`=`, `+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, `**`, etc.) and compound operators should be surrounded by spaces on both sides.
- Single-line docstring: space between triple quotes and contents.
- Multi-line docstring: newline after opening triple quotes and before ending triple quotes. No extra identation.
- Separate logical groups of code with empty lines
- Separate function, method and class definitions with an empty line, possibly two.
- The newline character is `\n`. No DOS-style `\r\n` newlines.

__Miscellaneous__
- Try to keep a line within 120 characters in width. We don't specify a hard line wrap limit - use common sense.
- (Almost) never use `from ... import *`. Always qualify the names you want to import, if you must use the `from ... import ...` syntax.
  * The test cases are an exception to this.
- Use import aliases (`import foo.bar.baz as baz`) if you feel name references are becoming too long.
- End a file with a newline.
- Try to section off relevant grouped parts of your code, preferably with a header like '## Internals.' or '## API.'


Commit messages
---------------

For quick fixes, a short one-line message is fine. For bigger commits though, use the full message to describe what you added and how it works, briefly. Wrap those lines to 78 characters.
Use the imperative form (`Add filesystem module tests.`, `Fix bug #1732.`, etc.) and proper punctuation in your commit messages.

Seperate the distinct changes you make into seperate commits. Don't have a single commit that adds multiple (unrelated) features, adds a feature and fixed a bug elsewhere, et cetera.

Prefix the first line in your commit message with the subsystem the commit applies to. Valid subsystems are:
  * rave: the engine core.
  * modules/*module*: an engine module.
  * build: the build and test system.
  * tests: unit or integration tests.
  * misc: anything that doesn't fit into the above categories.
